== README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...

Chase vehicle web site with Ruby 2.0 on Rails 4.0 framework.

Used Ruby Version Manager (rvm) version 1.19

<em>Database</em>

Redis DB is used for short-term database needs.

Main database is MongoDb using MongoMapper.

<em>Create gemset "fh" under ruby 2.0</em>

$ rvm use 2.0
$ rvm gemset create fh
$ rvm 2.0@fh


<em>Initial Framework:</em>

Create rails framework without Active Record (will use MongoMapper)
$ rails new FarHorizonsApp --skip-active-record

Make gemset switch automatic upon entering the project's directory:
$ cd <project name>
$ echo fh > .ruby-gemset
$ echo 2.0 > .ruby-version

Edit Gemfile to add mongo_mapper and redis:

# Database support
gem 'mongo_mapper', :git => "git://github.com/mongomapper/mongomapper.git", :tag => "v0.13.0.beta2"
gem 'redis'

<em>I/O Support</em>

Use ruby-serialport gem for serial port I/O. Add to Gemfile:

gem 'serialport'

NOTE: ruby-serialport seems to conflict with serialport, so find and delete
ruby-serialport directories in the 2.0@fh gemset directory.

<em>Misc useful gems</em>

Add to Gemfile:

gem 'bson_ext'

# Better ruby console than irb
gem 'pry'

# Use thin web server instead of spammy webrick
gem 'thin'

# Uncomment line to use debugger
gem 'debugger', group: [:development, :test]

run bundle install again:

$ bundle install

<em>Initial model creation</em>

Used Rails model generation with mongo_mapper template
$ rails generate mongo_mapper:model <model> <key:type ...>

Used rails built-in scaffolding for initial framework:
$ rails generate scaffold <model> <key:type ...>

NOTE: The scaffold-generated code uses the blah.update() method in the "update"
controller action method. This is a private method in MongoMapper and it was
manually replaced with the blah.set() method.

Until plans are made to use testing features, the scaffold-generated files in
the test folder have been backed up to test.zip and removed.

Please feel free to use a different markup language if you do not plan to run
<tt>rake doc:app</tt>.
